Clarification on restrictions (#244)
InteractiveAdvertisingBureau/GDPR-Transparency-and-Consent-Framework: TCFv2/TCF-Implementation-Guidelines.md

## 4. Withdrawal of consent and other non-TCF policy <a name="withdrawconsent"></a>
Signals sent through the IAB Europe framework should only indicate what the user status is at the time of the signal creation and nothing else. While the CMP should also enable users to withdraw consent, the minimum requirement is to record the user's preference at the time the signal is created. Certain GDPR policy, such as portability and the right to be forgotten, is not covered in the IAB Europe TCF. CMPs and vendors should address other GDPR rights outside the TCF separately and on their own.

> ## 5. Encoding publisher restrictions <a name="pubrestrenc"></a>

Reviewer: I am happy with this section. I think it does the job we're aiming to do in clarifying how a CMP should operate here.

> CMPs are advised to store/provide publisher restrictions only in cases they are necessary to reflect the publishers choice to restrict a vendors processing of personal data. In terms of reflecting a publisher’s choice:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to reduce the size of the TC string, CMPs are advised to store/provide publisher restrictions only when necessary to reflect the publisher's choice to restrict a vendor's processing of personal data. In terms of reflecting a publisher’s choice:
```

> * In case a vendor has not been disclosed to the user via the CMP UI, there is no need to store restrictions for that vendor in the TC String. Given the vendor was not disclosed both vendor consent and vendor legitimate interest signals in the TC String must be set to 0 which suffices to signal that the vendor may not process personal data.

Reviewer 2: must be set to 0 -> can be left undefined?

Author: Fine for me, adapted accordingly

> * In case a vendor has not been disclosed to the user via the CMP UI, there is no need to store restrictions for that vendor in the TC String. Given the vendor was not disclosed both vendor consent and vendor legitimate interest signals in the TC String can be left undefined which suffices to signal that the vendor may not process personal data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In case a vendor has not been disclosed to the user via the CMP UI, there is no need to store restrictions for that vendor in the TC String. If the vendor was not disclosed, both vendor consent and vendor legitimate interest signals in the TC String can be left undefined which suffices to signal that the vendor may not process personal data.
```

Author: Would want to leave it like that, sentence one is already defining that the vendor was not disclosed, thus 2 picks of on that (In case...., If.... is double conditional here)

> * Purpose restrictions (i.e. disallowing a vendor to process) need to be stored in case the vendor was disclosed by the CMP (reflecting the restriction in the UI) and registered for that purpose in the GVL

Reviewer 2: Not sure I follow this one. I think you're referring to restricting a purpose for a specific vendor, in which case the restrictions{} must be passed with a disallowed. If so it should be clarified.

Author: This is the same language as used in the TC String Format descriptions, a restrictions is either 

1. **Purpose** restrictions -> a vendor is disallowed to process for a purpose 
2. **Legal Basis** restrictions -> a vendor is forced to use a different legal basis and may not rely on its default one

Changed the language to make this clearer

> * Legal Basis restrictions are only needed in situations where there vendor was disclosed by the CMP (reflecting the restriction in the UI)  and declared flexibilty in the GVL for the respective purpose, meaning:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Legal Basis restrictions are only needed in situations where there vendor was disclosed by the CMP (reflecting the restriction in the UI) and declared flexibilty in the GVL for the respective purpose, meaning:
```

> * Legal Basis restrictions are only needed in situations where there vendor was disclosed by the CMP (reflecting the restriction in the UI) and declared flexibilty in the GVL for the respective purpose, meaning:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Legal Basis restrictions are only needed in situations where the vendor was disclosed by the CMP (reflecting the restriction in the UI) and had declared flexibility in the GVL for the corresponding purpose, meaning:
```

>     1. The vendor registered a purpose as legitimated interest (default legal basis), but also registered this purpose as flexible (i.e. also accepts consent as a legal basis). In this case a "require consent" restriction is needed to signal that the vendor may only apply the consent signal/can rely on it to process personal data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. The vendor registered a purpose as legitimate interest (default legal basis), but also registered this purpose as flexible (i.e. also accepts consent as a legal basis). In this case a "require consent" restriction is needed to signal that the vendor may only apply the consent signal/can rely on it to process personal data.
```

>     1. The vendor registered a purpose as legitimate interest (default legal basis), but also registered this purpose as flexible (i.e. also accepts consent as a legal basis). In this case a "require consent" restriction is needed to signal that the vendor may only apply the consent signal/can rely on it to process personal data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. The vendor registered a purpose as legitimate interest (default legal basis), but also registered this purpose as flexible (i.e. also accepts consent as a legal basis). In this case a "require consent" restriction is needed to signal that the vendor may only process using consent as legal basis.
```

>     2. The vendor registered a purpose as consent (default legal basis), but also registered this purpose as flexible (i.e. also accepts legitimate interest as a legal basis).  In this case a "require legitimate interest" restriction is needed to signal that the vendor may only apply the legitimate interest signal/can rely on it to process personal data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. The vendor registered a purpose as consent (default legal basis), but also registered this purpose as flexible (i.e. also accepts legitimate interest as a legal basis).  In this case a "require legitimate interest" restriction is needed to signal that the vendor may only process using legitimate interest as legal basis.
```

> Note that the above does not preclude the use of efficient encoding/decoding schemes in certain scenarios, for example in cases where a publisher wants to restrict a purpose for all vendors to consent it might be more efficient to encode a small number of range restriction segments using an specific encoding scheme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the above does not preclude the use of efficient encoding/decoding schemes in certain scenarios, for example in cases where a publisher wants to restrict a purpose for all vendors to consent it might be more efficient to encode a small number of range restriction segments using a specific encoding scheme.
```

Reviewer: It looks like there is alignment here. I'd like to merge this in by the end of the work week. Do you think we're there?

> Note that the above does not preclude the use of efficient encoding/decoding schemes in certain scenarios, for example in cases where a publisher wants to restrict a purpose for all vendors to consent it might be more efficient to encode a small number of range restriction segments using a specific encoding scheme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the above does not preclude the use of efficient encoding/decoding schemes in certain scenarios. For example, in cases where a publisher wants to restrict a purpose for all vendors to consent, it might be more efficient to encode a small number of range restriction segments using a specific encoding scheme.
```
